---
title: "Applied Computing - Winter 2024"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate and graduate course"
permalink: /teaching/CSC 299/
venue: "DePaul University, School of Computing (SoC)"
date: 2023-10-20
location: "Chicago, IL"
---
 Course Instructor.


## Course Description
CSC 299 stresses student initiative in investigating a particular application of computing. In the process, students learn new tools (including languages and APIs) methodologies, study algorithms/code examples/formalisms used in that particular computing area, work on projects, and apply them to develop operating systems.
The topic of study in this section of CSC 299 is Hardware Projects for the Raspberry Pi & the topic of CSE 299 is Hardware Projects. In this course, the students will apply problem-solving and programming skills toward building cyber-physical systems using the Raspberry Pi hardware platform. The course will cover basic electronics and the Python API for managing hardware devices (including communication interfaces), interfacing with digital and analog inputs (sensors), controlling motors (actuators), and using output devices (e.g., displays and buzzers). Throughout the course and final project, students will work in groups to build basic cyber-physical systems (e.g., controlling LEDs and motors, communicating over the Internet, monitoring the surroundings via various sensors) to moderately sophisticated ones (e.g., remotely piloting a robot rover over the Internet).

## Course Objectives
In this course, students will:
* Configure and secure Raspberry Pi for remote operation
* Work and be familiar with the Unix/Linux operating systems to perform system configurations, Python program development, and execution
* Use, be familiar with, and build basic electronic circuits
* Use Raspberry Pi and the Python API to interface digital/analog inputs (sensors), control motors, and other hardware (actuators), and use a variety of displays (output devices).
* Communicate with hardware devices over the Internet
* Build moderately sophisticated cyber-physical systems using the Raspberry Pi.

## Prerequisites
Students must also have taken CSC 242 or CSC 243 or an equivalent introduction to programming course. Also, students must have passed these courses or have been waived out of them. More to the point, students must already know how to program in Python or have sufficient programming experience to learn Python quickly. This is an in-person class, and the participation is compulsory. You will need to bring your Raspberry Pi kit and laptop to the class.

### Important notes
* This is a hands-on class. You are expected to take part in in-person sessions. The health safety guidelines and protocols will be followed.
* Labs, Homework (lab reports), quizzes, and final projects are individual activities. Final projects can be either group or individual activities.
* Groups will have up to two members. More information will be conveyed at mid-quarter after observing the class dynamics.
* This class follows the flipped classroom concepts where the students are expected to complete the reading assignments before attempting to complete the labs.
* Use components in the kit given to you with care.



